ristopy/README.rst, before:

=======================================================
risto.py -- Robot Framework's Historical Reporting Tool
=======================================================

``risto.py`` is a tool for plotting graphs about test execution
history based on statistics read from Robot Framework output files.
Actual drawing is handled by Matplotlib tool, which must be installed
separately.

.. contents::
   :local:

Synopsis
--------

.. sourcecode:: bash

  $ risto.py options input files
  $ risto.py options1 --- options2 --- optionsN --- input files
  $ risto.py --argumentfile path

Options
-------

  -C, --nocritical       Does not plot graphs for critical tests.
  -A, --noall            Does not plot graphs for all tests.
  -T, --nototals         Does not plot total graphs.
  -P, --nopassed         Does not plot passed graphs.
  -F, --nofailed         Does not plot failed graphs.
  -t, --tag <name>       Adds graphs for these tags. The name can contain "\*"
                         and "?" as wildcards. "AND" in the given name is
                         converted to " & ", to make it easier to plot
                         combined tags.
  -o, --output <path>    The path to the image file to create. If not given,
                         the image is opened into Matplotlib viewer.
  -i, --title <title>    The title of the graph. Underscores in the given title
                         are converted to spaces. By default, there is no
                         title.
  -w, --width <inches>   The width of the image. The default is 800.
  -h, --height <inches>  The height of the image. The default is 400.
  -f, --font <size>      The font size used for legends and labels.
                         The default is 8.
  -m, --marker <size>    The size of the marker used with tag graphs.
                         The default is 5.
  -x, --xticks <num>     The maximum number of ticks on the x-axis.
                         The default is 15.
  -n, --namemeta <name>  The name of the metadata of the top-level test suite
                         where to get the name of the test round. By default,
                         names are got from the paths to input files.
  --argumentfile <path>  Reads arguments from the specified file.
  --verbose              The verbose output.
  --help                 Prints this help.
  --version              Prints the version information.

Additionally, :code:`---` can be used to group options when creating multiple
images at once.

Description
-----------

``risto.py`` plots graphs about test execution history, based on
statistics read from Robot Framework's XML output files. By default,
it draws total, passed and failed graphs for critical tests and all
tests, but it is possible to omit some of these graphs and also to add
graphs by tags.

Names of test rounds that are shown on the x-axis are, by default,
obtained from the paths to input files. Alternatively, names can be
obtained from the metadata of the top-level test suite (for more
information, see Robot Framework's *--metadata* option).

Graphs are saved to a file specified with the *--output* option,
and the output format is determined by the file extension. The
supported formats depend on the installed Matplotlib back-ends, but at
least PNG ought to be always available. If the output file is omitted,
the graph is opened into Matplotlib's image viewer (which requires
Matplotlib to be installed with some graphical front-end).

Examples::

   risto.py --output history.png output1.xml output2.xml output3.xml
   risto.py --title My_Report --noall --namemeta Date --output out.png *.xml
   risto.py --nopassed --tag smoke --tag iter-* results/*/output.xml

It is possible to draw several graphs with different options at
once. This is done by separating different option groups with three or
more hyphens (*---*).  Note that in this case, also paths to
input files need to be separated from the options similarly::

   risto.py -CAP -t tag1 --- -CAP -t tag2 --- -CAP -t tag3 --- outputs/*.xml

Instead of giving all options from the command line, it is possible to
read them from a file specified with the *--argument* option. In
an argument file, options and their possible arguments are listed one
per line, and option groups are separated with lines of three or more
hyphens. Empty lines and lines starting with a hash mark (#) are
ignored::

   risto.py --argumentfile arguments.txt

::

   ====[arguments.txt]===================
   --title Overview
   --output overview.png
   ----------------------
   --nocritical
   --noall
   --nopassed
   --tag smoke1
   --title Smoke Tests
   --output smoke.png
   ----------------------
   path/to/*.xml
   ======================================

Installation
------------

``risto.py`` itself does not need to be installed, simply running
it from the command line is enough. It has some preconditions, though,
first ones being Robot Framework and Python.

The Matplotlib tool is used for plotting graphs, and it needs to be
installed separately. Matplotlib has its own preconditions, and at
least NumPy needs to be installed. The default Matplotlib installation
should always support at least PNG outputs, but if more output formats
are needed, some extra back-ends may need to be installed.
Additionally, you may need to install graphical front-ends to be able
to use Matplotlib's own viewer for opening graphs without saving them
to a file.

Links to the needed software:

Matplotlib
   http://matplotlib.sourceforge.net/
NumPy
   http://numpy.scipy.org/

Screenshots
-----------

Default settings
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The screenshot below uses some very simple example outputs, thus the lines
are mainly straight. The default settings have been used otherwise,
but the output has been saved into a file with the option::

   --output default.png

.. figure:: https://bitbucket.org/robotframework/robottools/raw/master/ristopy/doc/risto_default.png
   :width: 800
   :height: 400

Various settings
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The example outputs used in this screenshot are the same as in the previous
one, but now the following options have been specified::

   --nopassed --noall --tag f1 --title Another_Example --width 600 --height 250 --font 6 --marker 3 --output another.png

.. figure:: https://bitbucket.org/robotframework/robottools/raw/master/ristopy/doc/risto_another.png
   :width: 600
   :height: 250

Using Matplotlib's viewer
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This time there are more input files and the image has been opened
in Matplotlib's viewer (that is, the *--output* option has not been
used). The options used to create this example are the ones below::

   -CAP -t d1_AND_d2 -t t1 -t sub3 -i Yet_Another_Example -x 20 -w 1000 -n Name

.. figure:: https://bitbucket.org/robotframework/robottools/raw/master/ristopy/doc/risto_yetanother.png
   :width: 820
   :height: 393

More realistic examples
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

These examples are generated from actual test outputs using the
following argument file:

::

   --title Overview
   --output overview.png
   -----------------
   --title DRT Tests
   --nocritical
   --noall
   --tag phase-drt
   -nofailed
   --output drt.png
   ------------------
   path/*/output.xml

.. figure:: https://bitbucket.org/robotframework/robottools/raw/master/ristopy/doc/risto_overview.png
   :width: 800
   :height: 400

.. figure:: https://bitbucket.org/robotframework/robottools/raw/master/ristopy/doc/risto_drt.png
   :width: 800
   :height: 400

Commit message:

added download links to readme files

ristopy/README.rst, after:

=======================================================
risto.py -- Robot Framework's Historical Reporting Tool
=======================================================

``risto.py`` is a tool for plotting graphs about test execution history based
on statistics read from Robot Framework output files. The tool can be
downloaded here__.

Actual drawing is handled by Matplotlib tool, which must be installed
separately.

__ download_

.. contents::
   :local:

Synopsis
--------

.. sourcecode:: bash

  $ risto.py options input files
  $ risto.py options1 --- options2 --- optionsN --- input files
  $ risto.py --argumentfile path

Options
-------

  -C, --nocritical       Does not plot graphs for critical tests.
  -A, --noall            Does not plot graphs for all tests.
  -T, --nototals         Does not plot total graphs.
  -P, --nopassed         Does not plot passed graphs.
  -F, --nofailed         Does not plot failed graphs.
  -t, --tag <name>       Adds graphs for these tags. The name can contain "\*"
                         and "?" as wildcards. "AND" in the given name is
                         converted to " & ", to make it easier to plot
                         combined tags.
  -o, --output <path>    The path to the image file to create. If not given,
                         the image is opened into Matplotlib viewer.
  -i, --title <title>    The title of the graph. Underscores in the given title
                         are converted to spaces. By default, there is no
                         title.
  -w, --width <inches>   The width of the image. The default is 800.
  -h, --height <inches>  The height of the image. The default is 400.
  -f, --font <size>      The font size used for legends and labels.
                         The default is 8.
  -m, --marker <size>    The size of the marker used with tag graphs.
                         The default is 5.
  -x, --xticks <num>     The maximum number of ticks on the x-axis.
                         The default is 15.
  -n, --namemeta <name>  The name of the metadata of the top-level test suite
                         where to get the name of the test round. By default,
                         names are got from the paths to input files.
  --argumentfile <path>  Reads arguments from the specified file.
  --verbose              The verbose output.
  --help                 Prints this help.
  --version              Prints the version information.

Additionally, :code:`---` can be used to group options when creating multiple
images at once.

Description
-----------

``risto.py`` plots graphs about test execution history, based on
statistics read from Robot Framework's XML output files. By default,
it draws total, passed and failed graphs for critical tests and all
tests, but it is possible to omit some of these graphs and also to add
graphs by tags.

Names of test rounds that are shown on the x-axis are, by default,
obtained from the paths to input files. Alternatively, names can be
obtained from the metadata of the top-level test suite (for more
information, see Robot Framework's *--metadata* option).

Graphs are saved to a file specified with the *--output* option,
and the output format is determined by the file extension. The
supported formats depend on the installed Matplotlib back-ends, but at
least PNG ought to be always available. If the output file is omitted,
the graph is opened into Matplotlib's image viewer (which requires
Matplotlib to be installed with some graphical front-end).

Examples::

   risto.py --output history.png output1.xml output2.xml output3.xml
   risto.py --title My_Report --noall --namemeta Date --output out.png *.xml
   risto.py --nopassed --tag smoke --tag iter-* results/*/output.xml

It is possible to draw several graphs with different options at
once. This is done by separating different option groups with three or
more hyphens (*---*).  Note that in this case, also paths to
input files need to be separated from the options similarly::

   risto.py -CAP -t tag1 --- -CAP -t tag2 --- -CAP -t tag3 --- outputs/*.xml

Instead of giving all options from the command line, it is possible to
read them from a file specified with the *--argument* option. In
an argument file, options and their possible arguments are listed one
per line, and option groups are separated with lines of three or more
hyphens. Empty lines and lines starting with a hash mark (#) are
ignored::

   risto.py --argumentfile arguments.txt

::

   ====[arguments.txt]===================
   --title Overview
   --output overview.png
   ----------------------
   --nocritical
   --noall
   --nopassed
   --tag smoke1
   --title Smoke Tests
   --output smoke.png
   ----------------------
   path/to/*.xml
   ======================================

Installation
------------

``risto.py`` itself does not need to be installed, simply running
it from the command line is enough. The tool can be downloaded here__.
It has some preconditions, though, first ones being Robot Framework and Python.

__ download_

The Matplotlib tool is used for plotting graphs, and it needs to be
installed separately. Matplotlib has its own preconditions, and at
least NumPy needs to be installed. The default Matplotlib installation
should always support at least PNG outputs, but if more output formats
are needed, some extra back-ends may need to be installed.
Additionally, you may need to install graphical front-ends to be able
to use Matplotlib's own viewer for opening graphs without saving them
to a file.

Links to the needed software:

Matplotlib
   http://matplotlib.sourceforge.net/
NumPy
   http://numpy.scipy.org/

Screenshots
-----------

Default settings
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The screenshot below uses some very simple example outputs, thus the lines
are mainly straight. The default settings have been used otherwise,
but the output has been saved into a file with the option::

   --output default.png

.. figure:: https://bitbucket.org/robotframework/robottools/raw/master/ristopy/doc/risto_default.png
   :width: 800
   :height: 400

Various settings
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The example outputs used in this screenshot are the same as in the previous
one, but now the following options have been specified::

   --nopassed --noall --tag f1 --title Another_Example --width 600 --height 250 --font 6 --marker 3 --output another.png

.. figure:: https://bitbucket.org/robotframework/robottools/raw/master/ristopy/doc/risto_another.png
   :width: 600
   :height: 250

Using Matplotlib's viewer
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This time there are more input files and the image has been opened
in Matplotlib's viewer (that is, the *--output* option has not been
used). The options used to create this example are the ones below::

   -CAP -t d1_AND_d2 -t t1 -t sub3 -i Yet_Another_Example -x 20 -w 1000 -n Name

.. figure:: https://bitbucket.org/robotframework/robottools/raw/master/ristopy/doc/risto_yetanother.png
   :width: 820
   :height: 393

More realistic examples
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

These examples are generated from actual test outputs using the
following argument file:

::

   --title Overview
   --output overview.png
   -----------------
   --title DRT Tests
   --nocritical
   --noall
   --tag phase-drt
   -nofailed
   --output drt.png
   ------------------
   path/*/output.xml

.. figure:: https://bitbucket.org/robotframework/robottools/raw/master/ristopy/doc/risto_overview.png
   :width: 800
   :height: 400

.. figure:: https://bitbucket.org/robotframework/robottools/raw/master/ristopy/doc/risto_drt.png
   :width: 800
   :height: 400

.. _download: https://bitbucket.org/robotframework/robottools/raw/master/ristopy/risto.py
